Add documentation for Advanced Traffic Management (#1221)
humanmade/altis-cloud: docs/WAF/traffic-management.md

themselves. These use browser checks, fingerprinting, request-rate analysis, and
machine learning (ML). **Targeted Protections require
the [Advanced Traffic Management add-on.](#what-the-advanced-traffic-management-add-on-adds)**

They fall into a few families:

- **Volumetric** — abnormally high request volumes from a single IP or session in a short
  window (including sessions with no valid token).
- **Token-based** — requests missing a valid session token, which most real browsers carry.
- **Targeted signals** — token-level evidence of automation: automated browsers, browser
  automation extensions (such as Selenium), and inconsistent browser fingerprints.
- **Coordinated activity (ML)** — machine-learning detection of distributed, coordinated bot
  campaigns spread across many IP addresses, reported at Low, Medium, and High confidence.
- **Token reuse (ML)** — a single token being reused across many distinct IP addresses,
  countries, or networks (ASNs), reported at Low, Medium, and High confidence.

Because these rules escalate by confidence level, a common pattern is to Challenge or CAPTCHA

> 

Reviewer: @mikelittle Looks like this missed the full suggestion, might be a GitHub bug; the latter paragraph here was meant to remove this para too.

```suggestion
```

> # Traffic Management

Reviewer 2: I think the slug should follow the title here, i.e `traffic-management` rather than `advanced-traffic`

Reviewer: Typo here, `management` is missing an `a` :D

Author: Doh! Fixed.

[What the Advanced Traffic Management add-on adds](#what-the-advanced-traffic-management-add-on-adds)).

Traffic Management is built on AWS WAF Bot Control. Altis manages the underlying rule group on
your behalf and surfaces its detection results and controls in the Dashboard using
plain-language terminology — everything is configured from the Altis Dashboard, not from AWS.

For simpler, header-based control, see [User-Agent Blocking](./ua-blocking.md). To manage
access at the IP address level, see [IP Access Control](./access-control.md).

## What Traffic Management does

Every request to your environment is inspected and classified using a range of signals —
user-agent strings, IP address reputation, request patterns, and (for the add-on) browser
interrogation and machine-learning analysis. Traffic Management lets you:

- **See** how much of your traffic is automated, broken down by category, signal, and — with
  the add-on — individual bot name and operating organization.
- **Decide** how each type of automated traffic is handled: allow it, block it, or make it
  prove it's human.

Traffic Management appears in two places in the Dashboard:

> - The **Traffic** page shows analytics: how your traffic breaks down between verified bots,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The **Traffic** page shows analytics: how your traffic splits between verified bots,
```

Author: breaks down is definitely what I would say.

access at the IP address level, see [IP Access Control](./access-control.md).

## What Traffic Management does

Every request to your environment is inspected and classified using a range of signals —
user-agent strings, IP address reputation, request patterns, and (for the add-on) browser
interrogation and machine-learning analysis. Traffic Management lets you:

- **See** how much of your traffic is automated, broken down by category and signal.
  With the [add-on](#what-the-advanced-traffic-management-add-on-adds), you can also see individual
  bot names and the organizations behind them.
- **Decide** how each type of automated traffic is handled: allow it, block it, or make it
  prove it's human.

Traffic Management appears in two places in the Dashboard:

- The **Traffic** page shows analytics: how your traffic breaks down between verified bots,
  unverified bots, and non-bot (human) requests, and what has been allowed or blocked.
- The **Traffic Management** settings page (under **Application Settings**) is where you
  configure the mode and choose an action for each rule.

![The Traffic Management settings page](../assets/atm-settings.png)

## Key terminology

> 
> - **Bot** — any automated client, as opposed to a human using a browser. Bots are not
>   inherently bad: search engine crawlers and monitoring services are bots you probably want
>   to allow.
> - **Verified vs. unverified** — a *verified* bot is one that identifies itself and whose
>   identity Altis can independently confirm (for example, Googlebot crawling from Google's own
>   IP ranges, or a bot using the Web Bot Auth protocol). An *unverified* bot claims an identity
>   that cannot be confirmed, or none at all.
>   Most rules only act on unverified traffic — verified bots are labelled but left alone.
> - **Signal** — an indicator that a request is automated, such as coming from a known
>   bot data center or using a non-browser user agent. Signals apply to traffic that doesn't
>   fall into a clean category.
> - **Category** — the *kind* of bot, such as a search engine, an SEO tool, or an AI crawler.
>   Categories are determined from self-identifying signals like the user agent.
> - **Token** — a small piece of session data AWS WAF issues to legitimate browsers. Many of
>   the targeted protections rely on it to tell real
>   browsers apart from bots. Tokens are issued automatically when the CAPTCHA or Challenge
>   actions run.
> 

Reviewer: Let's link out for the web bot auth protocol.

```suggestion
- **Bot** — any automated client, as opposed to a human using a browser. Bots are not
  inherently bad: search engine crawlers and monitoring services are bots you probably want
  to allow.
- **Verified vs. unverified** — a *verified* bot is one that identifies itself and whose
  identity Altis can independently confirm (for example, Googlebot crawling from Google's own
  IP ranges, or a bot using the [Web Bot Auth protocol][wba]. An *unverified*
  bot claims an identity that cannot be confirmed, or none at all.
  Most rules only act on unverified traffic — verified bots are labelled but left alone.
- **Signal** — an indicator based on detection algorithms, such as coming from a known
  bot data center or using a non-browser user agent. Signals apply to traffic that doesn't
  fall into a clean category.
- **Category** — the *kind* of bot, such as a search engine, an SEO tool, or an AI crawler.
  Categories are primarily determined from self-identifying signals like the user agent.
- **Token** — a small piece of session data generated by the WAF. Many of
  the targeted protections rely on it to tell real browsers apart from bots. Tokens
  are issued automatically when the CAPTCHA or Challenge actions run.

[wba]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/webbotauth/about/

```

## Mode

The **Mode** setting controls how Traffic Management behaves overall. We recommend starting in
**Count Only** mode, reviewing the Traffic page for a week or two to understand your traffic,
and only then switching to **Active**.

| Mode           | Behaviour                                                                                                                                                                                      |

> |----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | **Disabled**   | Rules are not active. No automated traffic is classified or acted on.                                                                                                                          |
> | **Count Only** | Rules are evaluated and their matches are counted in your analytics, but **no requests are blocked or challenged**. This is the safe way to see what *would* happen before enforcing anything. |
> | **Active**     | Rules are enforced. The per-rule action you set for each category, signal, and protection is applied.                                                                                          |

Reviewer: Disabled only shows for stacks already in that mode, and will disappear once we switch everyone to Count Only.

```suggestion
| Mode           | Behaviour                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Count Only** | Rules are evaluated and their matches are counted in your analytics, but **no requests are blocked or challenged**. This is the safe way to see what *would* happen before enforcing anything. |
| **Active**     | Rules are enforced. The per-rule action you set for each category, signal, and protection is applied.                                                                                          |
```

| **CAPTCHA**   | Matching requests are shown a CAPTCHA puzzle on an interstitial page. Humans can solve it and continue; most bots cannot. Solving it issues a token so the visitor isn't repeatedly challenged.                                                                                                                                    |
| **Challenge** | Matching requests are given a silent, background browser check — no puzzle is shown. Real browsers pass automatically and invisibly; automated clients that can't run the challenge are stopped. **Challenge is available only with the [Advanced Traffic Management add-on](#what-the-advanced-traffic-management-add-on-adds).** |

The CAPTCHA puzzle is accessible — it offers both visual and audio variants and is available
in multiple languages. The interstitial page shown while a CAPTCHA is pending **does not count
towards your page views**.

> **CAPTCHA vs. Challenge.** A CAPTCHA interrupts the visitor with a puzzle, so use it where

> > some friction is acceptable, or where a rule might occasionally misidentify a real user and
> > you'd rather give them a way through than block them outright. A Challenge is invisible to
> > real users, making it the better default for protecting normal pages — if you have the
> > [Advanced Traffic Management add-on](#what-the-advanced-traffic-management-add-on-adds).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **CAPTCHA vs. Challenge.** A CAPTCHA interrupts the visitor with a puzzle, so use it where
> outright blocking may occasionally misidentify a real user. Challenges operate invisibly
> to real users, but may allow some automated traffic and require the
> [Advanced Traffic Management add-on](#what-the-advanced-traffic-management-add-on-adds).
```
